A data structure is an area of memory that can hold multiple data values. Data structures help organise related data in a particular format, and allow manipulation operations such as sorting, searching, adding or removing.

*Data structures can be either static (the size of the structure won’t change during the program runtime) or dynamic (the size could change during runtime).* Dynamic structures are harder to program and less predictable, but they allow greater flexibility to the programmer. Static structures are easier to setup and more or less look after themselves, but issues can arise when more memory is needed but not available.

**Arrays**
One of the most common and popular data structures. They are mostly static and contain data of all one type. Each variable inside an array is called an element and each element’s position in the array is known as its index

**Queues** - Queues work on a First In First Out basis
Enqueuing – adding a new elements to the back of the queue
Dequeuing – removing the element at the front of the queue

*Implementation*
Linked list – add the new node to the bottom of the list, and remove nodes from the top. Use pointers to track the front and back. This is known as a linear queue. 

**Stacks** - Stacks in a First in Last Out basis.
Pushing – adding a new elements to the top of the stack.
Popping – removing the element at the top of the stack

*Implementation*
Linked list – add a new node to the top (or bottom) of the list, remove the top (or bottom) node from the list. We keep track of the top and bottom of the list with two pointers

Additional subtopics:
```folder-index-content
```