**Magnetism is a non-contact force. It pulls metal objects which are magnetic towards a magnet.**

**Magnetic Fields**
- A region around a magnet where it has a magnetic effect.
- Field lines are also known as lines of flux and indicate the direction and magnitude/strength of a magnetic field.
- The direction of a line of flux shows the direction of the force that a N-Pole would feel at that point in the field. *(Always point from N to S)*
- The more closely packed the field lines the stronger the magnetic force at that point.

**Electricity and Magnetism**
A wire that carries a current has a magnetic field around it. [Use Right Hand Grip rule to remember direction](https://mammothmemory.net/images/user/base/Physics/magnets/wires%20and%20magnetic%20fields/the-right-hand-rule-of-electromagnetism.26c69f0.jpg) and we can represent magnetic fields around a wire using [dots and cross](https://cdn.savemyexams.com/uploads/2021/04/20.1-Direction-of-B-field.png)
The strength of a magnetic field around a wire carrying current can be increased by :
- Increasing the current.
- Wrapping the wire into a coil or a solenoid.

**Field Strength - Straight Wire**
The field around a current carrying wire is exactly circular if the wire is infinitely long. The equation gives the flux density/field strength at a distance a from a single long current carrying wire, carrying a current I.
$$B=\frac{\micro_{0}I}{2\pi a}$$
*where*
- B is the Magnetic Flux Density with units T (Teslas) with unit $kgA^{-1}s^{-2}$
- I is the current of wire 
- a is distance from wire
- $\micro_{0}$ is the permeability of free space $4\pi\cdot10^{-7}Hm^{-1}$ (constant)

**Field Strength - Solenoid Wire**
The equation below gives the flux density at the centre of a solenoid. The field is fairly uniform over the length of a solenoid, strictly the equation applies to an infinitely long solenoid but in practise it works well if length is at least 10 times diameter.
$$B=\micro_{0}nI$$
*where*
- n is the number of coils per metre

**A current in a magnetic field experiences a force**
The wire moves because the magnetic field of the permanent magnet reacts with the magnetic field of the current in the wire. 
Force gets bigger if:
- Current increases
- Magnetic field increases
- Longer piece of wire within the field

*The force on the wire is 90° to both the wire and the magnetic field. [Use FLHR](https://cdn1.byjus.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Fleming%E2%80%99s-Left-Hand-Rule.png)*

If the wire is at an angle to the magnetic field, sub into theta
$$F=BIL\sin\theta$$
*where :*
- L is the Length of the conductor in the magnetic field 
- Theta is the angle from wire to field direction

**Force between two conducting straight wires**
When the currents are in the same direction, the wires are forced together. Inversely, when the currents are in the opposite directions, the wires are forced apart.

**Forces on a moving particle**
Conventional current is in opposite direction to electron flow.
$$F=Bqv\sin\theta$$
*where :*
- q is the electron's charge 
- v is the velocity of the electron 

Additional subtopics:
```folder-index-content
```