For all nuclei bigger than  H, the mass of the nucleus is smaller than the mass of its constituent particles. *This is known as the mass defect or mass difference.* If we split a nucleus into its individual neutrons and protons, the total mass increases.

**Formula :**$$E=mc^{2}$$*where :*
- E = Energy (J)
- m = mass (Kg) 
- c = speed of light (3.00 × 108 ms-1)

*If know the mass of the components of a nucleus and we know the mass of the nucleus, we can calculate the mass difference and use that to calculate the energy difference. This is known as binding energy*

Since we are working on such small scales, we also use a smaller scale of measurement. The unified atomic mass unit (u) is defined as exactly one twelfth of the mass of one atom of carbon-12. And the same again instead of joules : One electronvolt (eV) is the energy of an electron accelerated by a potential difference of 1 Volt. Using those units, the following conversion is derived :
$$1u = 931 MeV$$
The Binding energy is the energy needed to split a nucleus into individual protons and neutrons. *The binding energy gives you information about the stability of a nucleus.* Total binding energy is linked to the size of the nucleus. The more nucleons there are, the greater the energy needed to separate them. *Binding Energy per Nucleon is the average energy needed to remove each nucleon from the nucleus.*

In radioactive decay an unstable nucleus emits radiation and becomes more stable. The daughter nucleus has a higher binding energy per nucleon than the parent.


Additional subtopics:
```folder-index-content
```