**The Atom**
*In any closed system the total amount of positive and negative charge is constant.* There are only two types of charge, positive and negative. Like charges repel and unlike charges attract. Neutral objects have equal amounts of positive and negative charges. Objects normally acquire a charge through losing or gaining electrons.

*Electrostatic force depends on the size of the charges and their separation*

**Coulomb's Law**
The force between two point charges is directly proportional to the product of the charges and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them. ($\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}$ is given in the formula booklet)
*Formula :*$$F=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q_{1}Q_{2}}{r^{2}}$$*Where :*
- F is Force in Newtons 
- $Q_n$ are the respective charges in units Columbus
- r is the distance between charges in units m
- $\epsilon_{0}$ is the permittivity of free space in units $Fm^{-1}$

*Direction of forces always along the line joining them, obeys N3L even if charges are not equal.* Force is positive with like charges and negative with unlike.

**Electric Field**
Electric Fields exist in the region around a charged particle. If another charged particle is placed within this field it will experience a force. Around a positive point charge, the field is radially outward. Around a negative point charge, the field is radially inward. The density of field lines on a diagram is indicative of the strength of the field.
*Formula :* $$E=\frac{F}{Q}\to E=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q}{r^{2}}$$Where E is Electric Field strength, Force experienced per unit charge by a small positive point charge, with units $NC^{-1}$ or $Vm^{-1}$

**Electric Potential**
This is *the work done per unit charge in bringing a positive charge from infinity to that point* measured in $JC^{-1}$ or V. This is a scalar quantity and as such the respective directions don't matter. $$V_{E}=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q}{r}$$
**Equipotential**
Equipotentials are lines that represent points of equal electric potential, these are spherical for a point charge. All conducting surfaces are equipotentials and so field lines always join them at right angles.

**Electric Potential Difference**
The potential difference between two points in an electric field is numerically equal to the work done in moving a unit positive charge from the point at the lower potential to that at the higher potential. A positive potential difference means there is work done on the charge. $$\Delta V_{E}=V_{EFinal}-V_{EInitial}$$
**Electric Potential Energy**
This is the work done in bringing a positive charge from infinity to that point. measured in J $$F=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q_{1}Q_{2}}{r}$$
