*Source Code*
Any code written by a programmer, usually in a high level language. Can’t be executed directly by a CPU – requires translation

*Machine Code*
Computers only understand 1 language – binary, a series of 1s and 0s. Therefore, code must be translated from source code into machine code/binary/object code/executable code

*IDE tools*
DE stands for “integrated development environment”, this is software which allows the programmer to write code and create software. It provides a number of different tools to help the developer with this process. This is usually split into tools which help with editing, and tools which help with debugging. 

*Editing Tools*
- Editor - Allows programmers to write code by entering text
- Automatic syntax checking - Can spot errors in code as it’s being written
- Statement completion - Auto-completes variable names and keywords as they are being entered
- Automatic formatting - Automatically indents code, and automatically fills in corresponding close brackets
- Syntax highlighting - Also known as automatic colour coding. Keywords & variables are highlighted
- Linker - Allows code from previously compiled programs (libraries, modules) to be linked to the current project
- Loader - Loads previously compiled code into memory so it can be run
- Optimisation - Messages to show any variables declared but not used etc.

*Runnings and Debugging Tools*
- Debugger - Helps programmers fix code by identifying types of error and where they occur in the program
- Trace - Displays the order of lines being executed, sometimes includes a variable watch
- Memory Inspector - Shows the contents of a section of RAM
- Emulator - Allows the program to run in a virtual environment rather than on the target device/system
- Variable Watch - Allows programmers to track the value of variables as they change throughout a program
- Break points - Stops code at a set point during runtime so that the programmer can inspect the status of the program at that stage
- Stepping - Runs code one line at a time

*Translators*
- Assembler - Puts code into the ram - Only used for assembly language, Assembles” this into machine code, 1 assembly language command = 1 command in binary, unlike high level languages
- Compiler - Slow to initially translate, but then once compiled it executes faster than interpreted programs. Creates an executable file which can’t be easily viewed, so protects intellectual property. Has to be recompiled if any changes are made
- Interpreter - Translates code line by line. Slower than compilers but more helpful for debugging. An interpreter needs to be installed before a program written in an interpreted language can be run.
