An operating system is the software that manages the computer. It can :
- manage the resources of the system 
- manage programs installed and being run 
- manage the security of the system
- manage the backing store of the system
- provide an interface between the user and the computer.

**Startup sequence :**
- The BIOS appears
- The main boot device will be checked for an Operating system 
- The main part of the OS is then loaded into RAM.  This part of the OS is responsible for process management, hardware management and other key low-level tasks, and is known as the **kernel**. 
- Once this has been loaded, the user interface part of the OS is loaded alongside key utility software.

**Interrupts :**
Both hardware and software can trigger interrupts and these are then dealt with by calling an interrupt service routine (ISR). The CPU has to stop whatever it is doing and deal with the interrupt. Different interrupts will have different priorities, and the OS manages this too.

**There are a variety of different types of OS available, each with different uses, attributes and modes of operation**

*Single-user OS*
Single-user OSs are very common, with Windows being a classic example. Although Windows can allow multiple users on a PC, only one of those users can be active at once. 
This is what you are used to using and what you will probably associate with the way an OS works
*Multi-user OS & networked OS*
Similar to school system

*Batch systems* and *Real-time systems* are also examples of OSs but they are also mode of operations, which the other OSs can imitate

*Real-time systems*
A real-time OS must respond within a short amount of time, sometimes considered to be immediate, to input provided to the system.
When developing a real-time OS, consideration must be taken away from general computing needs and focused on very specific applications.

There are two main types of real-time OS:
Real time control
Real time transaction

*Batch systems*
- a large number of similar or identical tasks or jobs to complete
- run with no user intervention (other than to start it)
- able to run during out of office hours (or when there is light load on the computers)
Batch processes tend to be run at night when there is little load on the servers as it tends to require large amounts of CPU time and needs a long time to complete. *The more jobs within the batch, the more time it will require to complete.*


Contents:
```folder-index-content
```