The internet is a *global communications infrastructure* - allows for the sending and receiving of data via wired or wireless communications

*Packets*
*The layout of a packet is split into header, data and footer*
Packets are small pieces of a larger file or item of data 
Packets are typically 1-1.5KB big, although they can be up to 64KB in size, depending on which protocols are being used
Packets also have headers and footers which contain vital information about the packet. The protocols that are employed during the [[Transmission|transmission]] of data adds information to the packet’s header and footer

These packets include : 
- Source and destination addresses
- Order number (for re-assembly)
- The actual data 
- Error control (checksum) bit 
- Control signals
- Protocols                   

| **TCP/IP Packet Contents**       |
| -------------------------------- |
| Source and destination addresses |
| Order number (for re-assembly)   |
| The actual data                  |
| Error control (checksum) bit     |
| Control signals                  |
| Protocols                        |

*Packet Switching*
With this type of switching, packets take independent routes across a network. This is much more secure – if one or two packets are “sniffed” by a hacker, they will only have an incomplete version of the whole file. This also means if one route is unavailable there are plenty of other routes to travel along

If packets were lost, then the TCP Protocol will ensure the packet is resent. Then finally the TCP Protocol ensures the file is reassembled correctly

*Routing Traffic*
- Whenever data is transferred over a network, a process called routing determines the path each data packet takes, ensuring that packets are delivered as quickly as possible 
- Routes are determined using a routing table which stores the different paths along which data can be sent
- Routing tables are constructed in the memory of network hardware components such as routers, switches, bridges, firewalls and gateways 
- In order to make best use of network resources, the path is chosen by calculating the lowest cost routes.

*Circuit Switching*
With circuit switching a dedicated route is used for the duration of the communication between two devices. This route cannot be used by any other traffic during this communication period. All [[Packets|packets]] will arrive in the order they are sent so there is no need for any re-assembly

An example of this would be old fashioned telephone lines, or more a relevant example would be two computers connected with a cable.

*Additional Subtopic*
```folder-index-content
```
