**The Atom**
*In any closed system the total amount of positive and negative charge is constant.* There are only two types of charge, positive and negative. Like charges repel and unlike charges attract. Neutral objects have equal amounts of positive and negative charges. Objects normally acquire a charge through losing or gaining electrons.

*Electrostatic force depends on the size of the charges and their separation*

**Coulomb's Law**
The force between two point charges is directly proportional to the product of the charges and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them. ($\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}$ is given in the formula booklet)

*Formula :*$$F=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q_{1}Q_{2}}{r^{2}}\to F=9\cdot10^{9}\cdot\frac{Q_{1}Q_{2}}{r^{2}}$$*Where :*
- F is Force in Newtons 
- $Q_n$ are the respective charges in units Columbus
- r is the distance between charges in units m
- $\epsilon_{0}$ is the permittivity of free space in units $Fm^{-1}$

*Direction of forces always along the line joining them, obeys N3L even if charges are not equal.* Force is positive with like charges and negative with unlike.

**Electric Field**
Electric Fields exist in the region around a charged particle. If another charged particle is placed within this field it will experience a force. Around a positive point charge, the field is radially outward. Around a negative point charge, the field is radially inward. *The density of field lines on a diagram is indicative of the strength if the field*

*Formula* $$E=\frac{F}{Q}\to E=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_{0}}\frac{Q}{r^{2}}$$Where E is Electric Field strength, Force experienced per unit charge by a small positive point charge, with units $NC^{-1}$ or $Vm^{-1}$


Additional subtopics:
```folder-index-content
```