**Capacitors store and then release electrical energy (and charge). A dielectric separates the two plates of metal, these are air or a vacuum. This increases capacitance**

Capacitor plates must have a net charge of zero, so must be equal and opposite each other. [Diagram Attached](https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/cap1.gif) . The leads connected to the plate become charged when a pd is applied, they have a large surface and the plates are normally rolled up like a Swiss roll.

**Capacitance Formula**
$$C=\frac{Q}{V}=\frac{\epsilon_{0}A}{d} $$
*Where :*
- C is the Capacitance in units F (Farad) or CV^1
- Q is the Charge on either plate 
- V is the potential difference between plates.
- A is the area 
- d is the distance between plates
- Epsilon is a constant.
*Charge on the plates is directly proportional to the capacitance and pd applied.*

**Charging up a capacitor**
- Connect to battery
- Initial surge of current whilst capacitor charges
- If battery removed, capacitor holds charge 
- Discharges by connecting the capacitor's leads together, a lot of current flows quickly.
- Current flows one way when charging and the other when discharging.

**Energy Stored in a capacitor** $$U=\frac{1}{2}QV=\frac{1}{2}CV^{2}=\frac{Q^{2}}{2C}$$
when a capacitor gets discharged, it short circuits.

*In Series*
Charge at each capacitor is the same and equal to total Q
The supply pd is shared between capacitors
Inverse proportion - 1/x capacitance requires x times the pd to hold the same charge

*In Parallel* - $Q\propto CV$ and $C= C_{1} +C_{2} + C_{3} + ...$
Pd across each capacitor is the same
Total charge is the sum of each of the individuals

**Electric Field (E-Field)**
Electric field is a potential gradient i.e. Pd per unit distance unit= $Vm^{-1}$. Inserting a dielectric Reduces electric field.
$$E=\frac{V}{d}$$
When the electric field is greater than 3x10^6, air breaks down and sparks jump across the gap. In nature this causes lightning, but the same can happen in capacitors with air as the dielectric.

**Discharging**
$$I=-\frac{Q}{t}=\frac{-Q}{CR}$$
*where*
- I is the discharging current
- R is Resistance
- C is Capacitance

Rate of loss of charge is proportional to charge, lose charge faster when more charge on the capacitor.

**Charge against time**
$$Q=Q_{0}e^{\frac{-t}{RC}}$$
*where* 
- RC is the Time Constant for discharging a capacitor. This tells you that the rate of loss of charge is dependent on resistance and capacitance.
- Q_0 is the maximum charge.

**For all electronics a capacitor will have discharged by 63% after one time constant.**

Note that $Q_{0}$ maximum charge is $VC_{0}$ 

Because pd and current also decrease exponentially when discharging:
$$V=V_{0}e^{\frac{-t}{RC}}\hspace{1cm}I=I_{0}e^{\frac{-t}{RC}}$$
If charged through a resistor, as time progress the p across R ($V_R$) and C ($V_C$) will add up to $V_0$ 

Which can become :
$$\frac{Q}{C} + IR = V_{0}\hspace{1cm}\frac{Q}{C} + \frac{RQ}{t} = V_{0}$$

